Consideration is the second stage of the funnel. While awareness campaigns serve as an introduction to the bank and our services/products, we aim to take it one step further, and get potential customers to seriously think about what we are offering. In this stage, we want to allow customers to find out even more about our products and services, with hopes of increasing their interest, eventually leading to conversion. For Consideration marketing campaigns, the aim is to maximise customer engagement, and to push them towards conversion. These campaigns are generally more targeted as compared to Awareness campaigns. Examples of such campaigns would be targeted emails or Instagram ads directing them towards our hotline or website. 

The success of Consideration campaigns can be evaluated based on the level of customer engagement, while also taking into account cost related metric such as cost per lead to achieve a balance. From question A2, Customers with longer session durations, a history of loyalty, and more recent interactions were more likely to engage with marketing campaigns. This insights are taken into account when coming up with KPIs and possible action steps.

KPIS:

1)  Click thru rate(CTR) (for online ads) - clicks/impressions * 100
Actionable Insight: This measures the percentage of people who click on an ad after seeing it. It is an indicator of how well the ad resonates with or captures the audiences' attention. A low CTR would suggest a need to change the ad design and content or to assess whether the platform used is suitable for the bank's target audience.

2) Website session duration - average time spent on website by people who click on ads = total time spent on website by all users/ number of ad clicks
Actionable Insight: This measures the level of engagement people have with the website. A longer time spent on the website is desirable as it generally indicates greater interest in the bank and its products and services.
Moreover, customers with longer session durations are more likely to be responsive towards future marketing campaigns. As such, it would be beneficial to focus marketing efforts towards customers with longer website session duration. As clicking on ads or searching for the bank's website generally indicates a baseline level of interest in the bank, low website session duration numbers could suggest that the website is unappealing to audiences, which could indicate a need to improve the websites design or interface.

3) Lead generation rate - number of leads generated/total number of impressions or visitors * 100
Actionable insight: This measures the rate in which leads are generated throughout a specific marketing campaign. The number of leads refer to the number of people who indicated interest in the bank's products or services, either through filling in forms, signing up for newsletters, downloading product brochures or making inquiries etc. This metric can be used to assess both ads and the bank's website, along with other possible platforms such as email. A low rate could suggest that the messaging is not compelling enough, targeting is off, or that the process of accomplishing the desired action eg filling in form is too difficult/troublesome for audience. It may be a good idea to enhance user experience, improve on the ad messaging or adjust targeting strategies. One possible targeting strategy would be to target people who have responded to past marketing campaigns or people who have had recent interactions with the bank.

4) Cost per lead(CPL)- total campaign cost/number of leads generated
Actionable insight: This measures whether or not marketing strategy is cost effective. It may be useful to compare CPL between channels to find the most cost efficient channel. More investment can be made towards these cost effective channels to maximise the number of leads generated while keeping cost low. If cost per lead is high, it could suggest that the messaging is not compelling enough, targeting is off, or that the process of accomplishing the desired action eg filling in form is too difficult/troublesome for audience. It may be a good idea to enhance user experience, improve on the ad messaging or adjust targeting strategies. One possible targeting strategy would be to target people who have responded to past marketing campaigns or people who have had recent interactions with the bank.