Awareness is the first stage of the marketing funnel. In this stage, the bank aims to capture the attention of people, build brand and product recognition, and project a positive image. By presenting itself as an option for potential customers, it increases the chances for consumer action down the line. For Awareness marketing campaigns, the aim is maximise reach and visibility, improve brand awareness, as well as create a positive perception for customers. Examples of awareness campaigns would be influencer posts and posters at MRT stations.

The success of Awareness campaigns should be evaluated based on reach,visibility, brand awareness and brand image. Reach, visibility and to an extent brand awareness can be measured more objectively while brand image is alot more subjective. As such, the KPIs we look at would be more focused on the first 3. 

KPIS:
1) Ad Views/Impressions - This measures ad traffic, or the number of people that have seen the campaign ads. 
Actionable Insight: If ad views/impressions are low, it is an indicator that the campaign is not reaching enough people. This could suggest the need for broader targeting or increasing the budget to enhance the ad’s reach. 

2) Website/Social media page Views/Impressions  - This measures the number of people that have visited the website or social media page 
Actionable Insight: This is an indicator of both reach and brand awareness. If this number is low but Ad Views/Impressions are high, it typically indicates that the ad does not resonate or capture the attention of the audience . This could suggest a need to change the ad design and content or to assess whether the platform used is suitable for the bank's target audience.

3) Click thru rate(CTR) (for online ads) - clicks/impressions * 100
Actionable Insight: This measures the percentage of people who click on an ad after seeing it. Similar to 2), it is an indicator of how well the ad resonates with or captures the audiences' attention. A low CTR would suggest a need to change the ad design and content or to assess whether the platform used is suitable for the bank's target audience.

4) Branded search volume - the number of times the bank or keywords related to the bank are searched for on a search engine, like Google, over a certain period
Actionable Insight: This measures brand awareness and interest. A low number suggests low awareness and interest in the bank and may indicate that the awareness campaign has not been as effective in generating interest or making the brand memorable. If branded search volume is low, it could signal that the campaign is not reaching the right audience or is not leaving a strong enough impression for people to actively seek out the brand after encountering the ad. This could suggest a need to change the ad design and content or to assess whether the platform used is suitable for the bank's target audience. If the search volume is low, it could also be a sign of inconsistent messaging. Ensuring that the bank's branding is coherent across all channels—whether social media, YouTube ads, or influencer posts—will help reinforce the brand's identity, making it more likely for customers to search for it later.

5) Social media mentions - comments on social media platforms mentioning the bank
Actionable Insight: This measures brand image and the publics' sentiment towards banks. If comments are largely negative, it is an indicator that the bank has a poor reputation, and rebranding may be necessary to change perspectives. It may also be helpful to reevaluate the bank's practices, products and services to find out the root cause.
