Conversion is the third stage of the funnel. In this stage, potential customers have already expressed interest in the bank's services and products. All we need to do is to get them to make the final decision - whether it be to open an account with the bank or to sign up for a new credit card. For Conversion campaigns, the aim is of course to maximise conversions and conversion rate. Examples of such campaigns would be personal recommendations sent through email or direct phone calls with a bank representative.

The success of Conversion campaigns can be evaluated based on conversion and conversion rate, which should be weighed against cost metrics to achieve a balance, such that a high level of conversions are obtained without having to overspend. The average conversion rate differs across platforms and is affected by numerous other factors such as the reputation of the bank and the quality of products and servies offered. As there isnt really a formula for what the optimal balance should be, the bank may have to experiment with different levels of ad spending and rely on previous benchmarks to find the optimal balance of conversions,conversion rate and spending.

KPIS:

1) Conversion rate - number of people who take a desired action(sign up for credit card, open account with bank etc) / total number of impressions * 100. This measures the effectiveness of the campaign at converting visitors/leads into customers.
Actionable Insight: Comparing conversion rates across platforms and past campaigns can help the bank to identify and compare between better and poorer performing platforms and campaigns. They can take insights and seek to emulate features from well performing campaigns, while avoiding mistakes made in poorer performing campaigns. They can also do A/B testing with different features to find out what works and what does not work, allowing them to optimise campaigns in the future. Comparing between platforms can also help the bank to determine which platforms work better for their target audience. A low conversion rate on a specific platform could indicate a need to improve targeting strategies, and assess whether or not a platform is suitable for the target audience. Segmentation of customers also allow for more personalised marketing, which could improve conversion rates. Targeting higher intent users who have expressed more interest in previous stages or improving incentives could also help with improving conversion rates.

2) Number of conversions - number of people who take a desired action(sign up for credit card, open account with bank etc).
Actionable Insight: A low number of conversions but a high conversion rate would suggest that reach needs to be improved. The bank can increase ad spending or explore new platforms to reach out to a larger audience. The bank should also consider improving on Awareness and Consideration campaigns to maximise lead generation. If both conversion rates and number of conversions are low, it would be better to improve conversion rates first, before deciding to increase the scale of campaigns, to avoid unneccessary and inefficient spending.

3) Cost per conversion - Total cost of campaign/ number of conversions. Measures the efficiency of campaign and allows us to assess which platforms are the most cost efficient. Again, there is no ideal standard for what cost per conversion should be. A high customer lifetime value(see A4_Loyalty) could also justify having a high cost per conversion, as each conversion results in a higher level of earnings for the bank. A high cost per conversion is often a result of low conversion rates, so it would be useful to look into that as well. This part would elaborate more on the case where conversion rate is not low, but cost per conversion is high.
Actionable Insight: Cost per conversion can be compared between platforms to assess the cost efficiency of each platform. If cost per conversion for a particular platform is too high, it might signal that the platform may not be suitable for the target audience. If there is significant overlap between users of different platforms, the bank could consider focusing their spending on one platform instead. A high cost per conversion could also signal a need to narrow the scope of target audience. A possible solution is to create more specific audience segments and use more personalised offers targeted towards each segment. A/B testing can also be done to identify areas in which cost can be reduced without much consequence to conversion rates and number of conversions.





