Loyalty is the final stage of the funnel. This stage involves only customers who have been or are currently with the bank now. In this stage, the aim is to keep them as customers, and prevent them from switching banks. For Loyalty campaigns, we want to maintain customer satisfaction and retention, minimise churn rates, as well as maximise customer lifetime value. Examples of such campaigns would be loyalty programs and personalised customer service. 

The success of Loyalty campaigns can be evaluated based on the level of customer retention as well as the value provided by each customer.

KPIS:
1)Churn Rate - Customers lost between start of period to end of period / Total Customers at start of period * 100. This measures the percentage of the bank's customers that stop engaging with the bank during the time period. It allows the bank to determine how well they are retaining their customers and is an indicator of customer loyalty and satisfaction.
Actionable Insight: A high churn rate may suggest that the bank may not be successfully maintaining relationships with customers or maintaining customer satisfaction. The bank may want to look into ways to strengthen their relationships with customers. Examples include loyalty programs and improved customer service. It may be a good idea for the bank to collect feedback from customers via surveys or direct conversations, in order to find out what might be causing customers to feel dissatisfied. Another reason for a high churn rate is that the bank's products and services may be inferior compared to other banks. It is important to conduct regular competitor analyses to ensure quality and pricing of products and services remain competitive in the market. Customer segmentation and increased personalisation in marketing may help the bank address specific needs of customers which can lead to greater customer satisfaction.

2)Active Engagement Rate(for loyalty programs) - Number of customers actively participating(by earning points, redeeming rewards etc) in loyalty program/Total participants enrolled in loyalty program over a time period. It is a direct measurement on how well loyalty programs resonate with customers or meet their needs. 
Actionable Insight: A low active engagement rate indicates that customers enrolled in loyalty programs are not actively participating in programs. It could suggest a need to improve the level of rewards to incentivise particpation. This could increase spending. A high customer lifetime value could justify increased spending on loyalty programs. Another possible action could be to look into the process to earn or redeem rewards. An overly complicated process could deter customers from participating due to lack of patience or interest. Customer segmentation can personalisation can be incorporated into loyalty programs to align more accurately with customer needs and preferences, which could incentivise engagement.

3)Customer Lifetime Value - Average Revenue per Customer * Average Customer Lifespan - Average Customer Acquisition Cost(Average amount spent on each customer in previous 3 stages). This helps to estimate the total amount of profit the bank can expect from each customer over the entire duration of their relationship. It can be used to estimate the monetary value of each customer.
Actionable Insight: This metric determine helps the bank to determine how much they can afford to spend for customer acquisition and retention. Aside from that, a low customer lifetime value suggests that the bank is not maximising what they are getting out of each customer. Looking into each of the 3 factors(Average Revenue, Average Customer Lifespan, Average Customer Acquisition Cost) in CLV may offer a more in depth insight on which aspects require improvements. For low average revenue, the bank can look into ways to increase the value they provide to each customer, such as offering additional services, upselling, or cross-selling products. For a low average customer lifespan, the bank can look into improving customer retention by enhancing customer satisfaction, improving loyalty programs, or offering personalized experiences to encourage long-term relationships. Lastly, if the customer acquisition cost (CAC) is high, the bank can look into reducing spending on marketing campaigns, or improving the efficiency of marketing strategies in the previous three stages.
